# shortest-path-finder

  This is a program made with Python that will find the shortest path between the starting coordinate and end coordinate on a board using the terminal. The user will be able to set the width and height of the board and pick the starting and end points on the board. Three obstables will be randomly placed on the board that could block the path from the start point to the end point. Only up, down, left, right movements will be allowed (no diagonal movements). This program uses the A* search algorithm to return the shortest path to the end point.

  The three important values that the algorithm will be based on are the G, H, and F values. The G value is the steps from the current coordinate and the starting coordinate. The H value is the steps from the current coordinate and the end coordinate. The F value is the sum of the G and H values. The values will take into account that only up, down, left, and right movements are allowed and diagonal movement is not allowed. For example, the distance between (1,1) and (4,5) will be calculated as 7 and not 5.

  From the starting point, the neigboring coorderinates (one step up, down, right, or left) will have their G, H, and F values calculated. The neigboring coordinate with the lowest F value will be chosen. If there are multiple lowest F values, the one with the lowest H value will be chosen. If the lowest F and H values are the same, the most recently calculated neighboring coordinate will be chosen. Coordinates will be chosen until the end coordinate is reached. The path from the start coordinate and end coordinate will be returned.
